{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf810
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 SFUIText-Regular;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 SFUIDisplay-Ultralight;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 SFUIText-Light;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;}
{\info
{\author Ryan Poolos}}\margl1440\margr1440\vieww16860\viewh27300\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs34 \cf2 The hero you bring into battle comes with his or her own strengths and weaknesses. Great teams are built by choosing heroes that improve each other\'92s strengths and help cover each other\'92s weaknesses.\
\
These guidelines should give you an idea which heroes are recommended in the Jungle and the Lane. They should also give you a broader understanding of how each of the primary roles work together in a team.
\fs24 \
\
\
\

\f1\fs56 Step 1: Banning Phase
\f0\fs24 \
\

\fs34 Ban a hero that is currently strong in the current meta or a hero that you do not want to be played in the match. Priority bans tend to change from patch to patch so it is up to you to research the patch notes and/or watching streamers to find which heroes is highly recommend.
\fs24 \
\
\
\

\f1\fs56 Step 2: Role Assignment
\f0\fs24 \
\

\fs34 Whether you are in a full party or in solo queue indicating which roles each individual is important to a successful draft.\
\
There are three main roles in Vainglory currently.
\fs24 \
\
\

\f2\fs44 The Captain
\f0\fs24 \

\i Goal: Protect the Carry
\i0 \
\

\fs34 The captain is the leader and shot-caller of the team. This role\'92s job is directing real-time team tactics and, most importantly, protecting your carry from harm. And while we deserve any jokes at our expense about another name change (RIP roamer), the choice of \'93captain\'94 isn\'92t just cosmetic. We have a long-term vision for how the captain will play a unique in-game role on a team, with a markedly different mindset, options and incentives. Update 2.0 is only the very tip of the iceberg for what we have in store for captains in Vainglory.\
\
Those who like to lead, absorb damage and shield allies from harm should be the captain.
\fs24 \
\
\

\f2\fs44 The Carry
\f0\fs24 \

\i Goal: Secure Kills
\i0 \
\

\fs34 The carry is the team\'92s gold-hungry playmaker. This player starts in lane to earn money faster and build items quicker \'97 all for the express purpose of killing as many enemies as possible. The carry is the most dangerous team member, but it\'92s also the most fragile. As such, the carry should always be in close proximity to the captain or a turret cannon. If the carry is alone or positioned too far forward, it likely won\'92t end well.\
\
Those who like to live on the knife\'92s edge of death or superstardom should be the carry.
\fs24 \
\
\

\f2\fs44 The Jungler
\f0\fs24 \

\i Goal: Menace the Enemy Carry
\i0 \
\

\fs34 The jungler prowls the terrain beneath the lane, looking to threaten or ambush vulnerable enemies. The jungler is halfway between the captain and the carry \'97 durable enough to offer some protection and strong enough to stand and fight \'97 but with neither as a specialty. The jungler is most effective when breaking through the enemy front line and creating chaos (or death) for the enemy carry.\
\
Those who like to fearlessly get in the enemy\'92s face should be the jungler.
\fs24 \
\
\
\

\f1\fs56 3. Picking a Hero
\f0\fs24 \
\

\fs34 Side A\
If you are on A side of the draft you are going to have first pick. A typical strategy is to pick a hero that is a captain or a hero that can be used in multiple roles. This will give the enemy team the least amount of information and harder to counter draft.\
\
Side B\
If you are on B side you will pick your first two heroes after the first selection from side A has been locked in. Depending on side A's hero selection there are two typical strategies. 1. Counter pick their first hero selection or pick up the desired Carry and Captain your team would like to play.\
\
Side A\
To round out Side A's team composition you will have two picks. These picks should be used to counter the first two picks from Side B. Side A has the advantage of picking their desired hero first.\
\
Side B\
To round out Side B's team composition you will have the final pick of the draft. The final pick should be used to counter side A's last two hero selections. This is side B's advantage of the draft. Knowing Side A's complete composition and being able to round out your team composition with the final pick.
\fs24 \
}